>> Ifill: ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS
SEIZE THE ANCIENT CITY OF
PALMYRA, AND NOW CONTROL HALF OF
SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
>> ALL OUR WILD SPAWNING SALMON
HAVE DIED.
>> Woodruff: AS NUT HARVESTS
BOOM, SALMON POPULATIONS
DECLINE.
CALIFORNIA FARMERS AND FISHERMEN
FIGHT FOR THE LITTLE WATER LEFT
DURING A HISTORIC DROUGHT.
>> IF WE DON'T HAVE WATER, WE
DON'T HAVE A BUSINESS, WE DON'T
HAVE A LIVELIHOOD, A WAY TO
CONTINUE PROVIDING FOR OUR
FAMILY.
>> Ifill: PLUS, A RARE
PHENOMENON THAT OCCURS A FEW
TIMES EACH YEAR AT YOSEMITE
NATIONAL PARK.
PHOTOGRAPHERS CHASE A FLEETING
RAINBOW, SEEN ONLY BY THE LIGHT
OF THE MOON.
>> AT DUSK, A BRIGHT FULL MOON
RISES IN JUST THE RIGHT POSITION
UNDER A CLOUDLESS CLEAR SKY.
>> THAT IS A MOONBOW!
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. COAST
GUARD AND THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA CALLED IN MORE HELP
TODAY TO CLEAN UP AN OIL SPILL
THAT'S FOULED NINE MILES OF
COASTLINE, NEAR SANTA BARBARA.
OFFICIALS NOW SAY 100,000
GALLONS MAY HAVE LEAKED FROM A
RUPTURED PIPELINE ON TUESDAY.
SEVERAL HUNDRED WORKERS HAVE
LABORED TO COLLECT ABOUT 20,000
GALLONS THAT REACHED THE SEA.
AND OVERNIGHT, GOVERNOR JERRY
BROWN DECLARED A LOCAL
EMERGENCY, MAKING MORE CREWS AND
GEAR AVAILABLE, FOR AS LONG AS
IT TAKES.
>>THE CLEANUP OPERATIONS
GENERALLY DO TAKE TIME, AND YOU
MAY SEE SOME PROGRESS EARLY-ON,
MAYBE IN THE FIRST WEEK OR TWO,
WHERE YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE
PROGRESS BEING MADE ON THE
BEACH.
BUT THESE TYPES OF THINGS
CONTINUE ON PERHAPS EVEN FOR
MONTHS.
>> Woodruff: ENVIRONMENTAL
EFFECTS OF THE SPILL ARE STILL
BEING ASSESSED, BUT SOME BIRDS
HAVE BEEN OILED, AND THE AREA IS
CLOSED TO FISHING AND SHELLFISH
HARVESTING.
>> Ifill: THE HEAD OF THE BOY
SCOUTS OF AMERICA CALLED TODAY
FOR DROPPING A BAN ON GAY SCOUT-
MASTERS.
ROBERT GATES, A FORMER SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE, ADDRESSED THE
SCOUTS' NATIONAL MEETING, IN
ATLANTA.
>> I MUST SPEAK AS PLAINLY AND
AS BLUNTLY TO YOU, AS I SPOKE TO
PRESIDENTS WHEN I WAS DIRECTOR
OF THE C.I.A. AND SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.
WE MUST DEAL WITH THE WORLD AS
IT IS, NOT AS WE MIGHT WISH IT
TO BE.
THE STATUS QUO IN OUR MOVEMENT'S
MEMBERSHIP STANDARDS CANNOT BE
SUSTAINED.
>> Ifill: GATES SUGGESTED THE
POLICY SHOULD BE REVISED SOON,
TO LET LOCAL CHAPTERS DECIDE FOR
THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: MALAYSIA AND
INDONESIA ANNOUNCED TODAY THEY
WILL ACTIVELY SEARCH FOR
STRANDED BOATS FILLED WITH
REFUGEES FROM MYANMAR AND
BANGLADESH.
FOR WEEKS, THOUSANDS OF THE
MIGRANTS HAVE BEEN TURNED AWAY
FROM LANDING, AND LEFT TO DRIFT
AT SEA.
BUT TODAY CAME WORD THAT POLICY
IS CHANGING, AT LEAST FOR NOW.
>> (translated): THE
NAVY WILL
NAVY WILL DEFER TO THE
INDONESIAN FOREIGN
DEFER TO THE INDONESIAN FOREIGN
MINISTRY ON THIS MATTER.
THE FOREIGN MINISTRY DISCUSSED
IT AND FOR NOW, AS LONG AS THE
MIGRANTS ARE IN DIFFICULTY AND
IN NEED OF HELP, WE WILL HELP.
>> Woodruff: MALAYSIA AND
INDONESIA HAD ALREADY ANNOUNCED
THEY WILL GIVE TEMPORARY SHELTER
TO MIGRANTS WHO REACH SHORE.
>> Ifill: IN BURUNDI, AT LEAST
TWO PEOPLE DIED IN PITCHED
STREET BATTLES, AS A POLITICAL
CRISIS DEEPENED IN THE AFRICAN
NATION.
BULLETS AT PROTESTERS WHO
IGNORED THE PRESIDENT'S CALL FOR
CALM.
THEY OPPOSE HIS QUEST FOR A
THIRD TERM.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, A GRAND JURY IN
BALTIMORE INDICTED SIX POLICEMEN
ON A BATTERY OF CHARGES, IN THE
DEATH OF FREDDIE GRAY.
THEY'RE SIMILAR TO THE CHARGES
ALREADY FILED BY THE STATE'S
ATTORNEY.
GRAY DIED LAST MONTH AFTER
SUFFERING A SEVERE SPINAL INJURY
IN CUSTODY.
>> Ifill: THE MAN WHO MANEUVERED
A GYROCOPTER ONTO THE GROUNDS OF
THE U.S. CAPITOL PLEADED NOT
GUILTY TO A STRING OF CHARGES
TODAY.
DOUGLAS HUGHES APPEARED IN
FEDER COUALRT IN WASHINGTON.
THIS CELL PHONE VIDEO SHOWED THE
FOMER RPOSTAL CARRIER FLYING UP
THE NATIONAL MALL AND LANDING ON
THE CAPITOL LAWN IN APRIL.
HE SAID HE WAS PROTESTING BIG
MONEY IN POLITICS.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET,
STOCKS ADVANCED, INCH BY INCH.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED A THIRD OF A POINT TO
CLOSE NEAR 18,290.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 19 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED FIVE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
VICTORIES FOR THE ISLAMIC STATE
IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
RESTORING DIPLOMATIC TIES WITH
CUBA.
TALKS RESUME TO IRON OUT DETAILS
AND SET A DEADLINE.
THE SENATE ADVANCES PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S TRADE AGENDA WITH ASIA.
THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF HISTORIC
DROUGHT ON CALIFORNIA'S
FISHERMEN.
DOMESTIC ABUSE CHARGES FOR RAY
RICE DROPPED.
YOSEMITE'S LESSER KNOWN WONDERS
AND THE SCIENCE BEHIND THE
NIGHTTIME RAINBOWS.
AND, WHY A GENERATION OF CHINESE
AMERINS TCAODDLERS ARE SENT BACK
TO ASIA BY THEIR PARENTS.
>> Ifill: AFTER A WEEK IN WHICH
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP MADE
DRAMATIC GAINS IN THREE
COUNTRIES-- IRAQ, SYRIA AND
LIBYA-- THERE WERE NEW DOUBTS IN
WASHINGTON OVER WHETHER THEY CAN
BE STOPPED.
ISIS FIGHTERS TRUMPETED THEIR
CONQUEST OF ANCIENT PALMYRA, IN
CENTRAL SYRIA, AFTER DAYS OF
FIGHTING.
AND SYRIAN STATE TV CONFIRMED
IT.
>> (translated): SYRIAN
NATIONAL DEFENCE FORCES HAVE
WITHDRAWN FROM PALMYRA.
ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS HAVE
ENTERED THE CITY IN BIG NUMBERS
AND ARE TRYING TO ENTER
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES.
>> Ifill: SYRIAN ACTIVISTS
REPORTED THE MILITANTS HAD, IN
FACT, ALREADY SEIZED THE WORLD-
RENOWNED ROMAN RUINS, JUST
OUTSIDE PALMYRA.
THE SITE IS FAMOUS FOR ITS
2,000-YEAR-OLD COLONNADES AND
OTHER ANTIQUITIES.
AND, THERE ARE FEARS THAT ISIS
EXTREMISTS WILL DESTROY THEM,
AS THEY'VE DONE IN IRAQ.
THE HEAD OF THE GLOBAL CULTURAL
AGENCY UNESCO PLEADED TODAY FOR
A CEASE-FIRE.
>> DESTROYING HERITAGE WILL NOT
ACHIEVE ANYTHING.
DESTROYING SUCH HERITAGE DOES
NOT MEAN THAT YOU ACHIEVE SOME
KIND OF VICTORY OVER YOUR ENEMY.
YOU DON'T CONVINCE OTHER PEOPLE
THAT YOU ARE RIGHT.
>> Ifill: BUT THE SEIZURE OF
PALMYRA DOES MEAN THAT ISIS NOW
CONTROLS EVEN MORE SYRIAN
TERRITORY.
AND HUNDREDS OF MILES TO THE
EAST, IN IRAQ, THE MILITANTS
TODAY FOLLOWED UP THEIR CAPTURE
OF RAMADI, BY OVERRUNNING IRAQI
MILITARY POSITIONS TO THE EAST
OF THE CITY.
THE GROUP ALSO SCORED GAINS IN
FAR-AWAY LIBYA, TAKING THE CITY
OF SIRTE, HOMETOWN OF FORMER
LEADER MOAMMAR GADDAFI.
THE CASCADE OF ISIS VICTORIES
RAISED NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT U.S.
RELIANCE ON AIR STRIKES TO
DEFEAT THE MILITANTS.
THAT ISSUE DOMINATED A SENATE
HEARING, WHERE LAWMAKERS AND
WITNESSES TOOK TURNS LAMBASTING
THE ADMINISTRATION.
>> WHILE IT'S STILL UNCLEAR WHAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS WILLING TO DO
IN SYRIA, IT IS CLEAR OUR
PARTNERS DO NOT DRAW CONFIDENCE
FROM STATEMENTS OF WHAT WE WILL
NOT DO.
>> WE ARE NOT ONLY FAILING.
WE ARE, IN FACT, LOSING THIS
WAR.
MOREOVER, I CAN SAY WITH
CERTAINTY, THAT THIS STRATEGY
WILL NOT DEFEAT ISIS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT DID NOT
RESPOND DIRECTLY, AS HE MET WITH
HIS CABINET.
BUT IN AN INTERVIEW WITH "THE
ATLANTIC," HE OFFERED AN
APPRAISAL OF THE SITUATION IN
IRAQ, SAYING:
AT TODAY'S WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING,
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST SPOKE
DIRECTLY TO WHAT WILL, AND
WON'T, HAPPEN NEXT.
>> THE PRESIDENT IS NOT GOING TO
BE IN A POSITION WHERE HE'S
GOING TO CONSIDER A LARGE-SCALE
U.S. MILITARY DEPLOYMENT.
AND FOR THOSE WHO ARE CALLING ON
A CHANGE IN STRATEGY, I WOULD
ENCOURAGE THEM TO BE SPECIFIC.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS WORD THAT
THE U.S. IS SENDING 2,000 ANTI-
TANK ROCKETS TO IRAQ'S MILITARY,
TO TARGET SUICIDE CAR BOMBERS
BEFORE THEY STRIKE.
FOR MORE ON THIS,'M J IOINED BY
FEISAL ISTRABADI.
HE WAS IRAQ'S DEPUTY AMBASSADOR
TO THE UNITED NATIONS FROM 2004
TO 2007.
AND, DAVID IGNATIUS, A FOREIGN
POLICY COLUMNIST AT THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
DAVID, THE PRESIDENT TODAY IN
THAT INTERVIEW THAT WAS
PUBLISHED TODAY DESCRIBED THE
FALL OF RAMADI AS A TACTICAL
SETBACK.
IS IT?
>> I THINK IT'S MORE THAN THAT.
I THINK IT'S A SYMBOL THAT THE
STRATEGY THAT THE U.S. HAS BEEN
PURSUING OR ENCOURAGING IRAQ TO
PURSUE FOR THE LAST YEAR, MOSUL
WAS OVERRUN IN JUNE OF LAST
YEAR, SIMPLY ISN'T WORKING IN
REACHING OUT TO SUNNIS, HELPING
SUNNIS PUSH I.S.I.S. OUT OF BIG
CITIES LIKE MOSUL AND NOW
RAMADI, FALLUJAH WHICH IS NEXT
TO BAGHDAD.
SOMEHOW THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
TO FIND A WAY TO HELP OR PUSH
ABADI TO REACH OUT TO THE REST
OF HIS COUNTRY.
OTHERWISE, IT LOOKS TO ME AS IF
THE SUNNI AREAS ARE GONE.
>> Ifill: DO YOU THINK THE
PROBLEM LIES WITH ABADI?
>> I THINK ABADI WANTS TO DO THE
RIGHT THING.
HE CERTAINLY TELLS U.S.
OFFICIALS OFTEN HE'S TRYING TO
REACH OUT TO SUNNIS, BUT FOR A
YEAR THE U.S. HAS BEEN TRYING TO
ENCOURAGE IRAQ TO PASS A LAW
THAT WOULD PROVIDE MONEY AND
TRAINING AND WEAPONS FOR SUNNI
NATIONAL GUARD THAT COULD WITH
EFFECTIVE IN PLACES LIKE RAMADI,
LIKE MOSUL IN TURNING BACK THE
FIGHTERS.
THAT LEGISLATION HAS NOT BEEN
PASSED.
ABADI NEEDS HELP AND TO BE
PRODDED.
IF THE WEAPONS AND TRAINING
DON'T COME, THERE ARE NO SUNNI
FIGHTERS.
>> Ifill: FEISAL ISTRABADI, IS
THIS A SIGN BY THE UNITED STATES
AND THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT ITSELF?
>> THAT MAY BE.
THE STUNNING SUCCESS IN TAKING
MOSUL IN FOUR HOURS SHOULD HAVE
FOCUSED ALL OUR MINDS
DISCREETLY.
I THINK MR. IGNATIUS IS RIGHT,
THAT THERE IS NOT -- WELL, A
YEAR AGO, THE ADMINISTRATION WAS
RIGHT TO SAY IT WOULD ONLY
SUPPORT THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT IF
POLITICAL CHANGES WERE MADE AND
RECOGNIZED THEN POLITICAL
CHANGES NEEDED TO BE MADE ON THE
GROUND IN IRAQ.
OVER THE PAST YEAR, IT HAS NOT
DONE ENOUGH, IN MY JUDGMENT, TO
INSIST UPON THAT POLITICAL ACOME
BASE BEING -- ACCOMMODATION
BEING MADE AND HAS FOCUSED TOO
MUCH ON THE MILITARY ASPECT OF
THIS ENGAGEMENT AND NOT ENOUGH
TON POLITICAL REFORMS NEEDED
SPECIFICALLY RECONCILIATION AND
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT DAVID
IGNATIUS TALKED ABOUT A FEW
MOMENTS AGO.
>> Ifill: BUT I WONDER, AND
I'LL ASK DAVID THIS AS WELL, I
WONDER IF THIS DOESN'T SPEAK TO
A DISCONNECT IN U.S. POLICY
TOWARD I.S.I.S. OR DEFEATING
I.S.I.S.?
>> IT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME.
THE SPOKESMAN SAID IF THERE'S A
CHANGE OF STRATEGY, TELL US WHAT
IT IS.
A CHANGE OF STRATEGY SUGGESTS
THERE IS A STRATEGY.
I DON'T SEE A STRATEGY THAT
DEALS WITH -- THAT CONCERNS WITH
DEALING WIT WITH I.S.I.L OVERAL.
THERE IS A STRATEGY FOR DEALING
WITH IT IN IRAQ.
I'M NOT SURE THERE IS ONE IN
SYRIA AND LIBYA IS DIFFERENT
ALTOGETHER.
IT ISN'T CLEAR THE UNITED STATES
OR THE WESTERN ALLIANCE OR THE
REGIONAL POWERS IN FACT HAVE A
STRATEGY OF CONFRONTING I.S.I.L
AS SUCH.
>> Ifill: DAVID IGNATIUS, WHAT
ABOUT SENATE.
>> WELL, MR. ISTRABADI IS RIGHT.
THE U.S. STRATEGY HAS BEEN THAT
IRAQ SHOULD COME FIRST.
IT'S VERY HARD TO UNDERSTAND
JUST WHAT OUR STRATEGY IS IN SIR
SYRIA, FRANKLY, AND ON IRAQ,
THIS IS IRAQ'S WAR.
THE ROLE OF THE UNITED STATES IS
TO HELP IRAQ, TO ARM, TRAIN,
SUPPORT, PROVIDE AIR SUPPORT,
BUT THIS HAS TO BE IRAQ'S WAR.
I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA,
FRANKLY, IS READING THE UNITED
STATES PUBLIC CORRECTLY IN
JUDGING THAT THE COUNTRY JUST
ISN'T READY TO SEND A BIG GROUND
ARMY BACK INTO IRAQ.
>> Ifill: EVEN THOUGH THERE
ARE 3,000 AMERICAN ADVISORS.
>> BUT THERE ARE LIMITS ON THE
AMERICAN ROLE.
I WISH THE ADVISORS WERE LEANING
HARDER INTO THE FIGHT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT WOULD HELP EMBOLDEN
THE IRAQI FORCES ON WHOM WE ARE
DEPENDING.
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT WHAT'S
HAPPENED IN THE LAST WEEK.
I THINK THE ONLY JUDGMENT YOU
CAN MAKE IS THAT WHAT WE'RE
DOING NOW ISN'T WORKING.
IMPORTANT TERRITORY IS BEING
LOST, AND THE PRESIDENT -- IF HE
WANTS TO STICK WITH THE
STRATEGY, HE HAS TO BE TOUGHER
ABOUT IMPLEMENTING IT WITH
IRAQIS, WITH THE AMERICAN
MILITARY PROVIDING THE SUPPORT.
A WHOLE SERIES OF THINGS HAVE TO
BE STEPPED UP OR WE'LL SEE MORE
REVERSE ALSO.
>> Ifill: FEISAL ISTRABADI, TO
WHAT DEGREE IS IRAN A
COMPLICATING FACTOR IN ALL THIS?
>> IRAN IS A COMPLICATING
FACTOR.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IRAN IS ALSO
ENGAGED IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
I.S.I.L FOR REASONS OF ITS OWN
THAT INCLUDE A DESIRE NOT TO SEE
A REASONABLY FRIENDLY GOVERNMENT
IN BAGHDAD FALLING, BUT IT ALSO
INCLUDES ITS DESIRE NOT TO HAVE
I.S.I.L'S IDEOLOGY SPREAD IN THE
REGION WHERE IT LIVES.
SO THERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
COOPERATION WITH IRAN.
I.S.I.L IS A COMMON ENEMY, AND I
THINK WE ARE AT A POINT WHERE
THE ENEMY OF MY ENEMY IS CLOSE
ENOUGH TO BEING MY FRIEND, AT
LEAST INKS IT'S THIS KIND OF
INSTABILITY AND OF COURSE A LOT
OF ARGUMENT AGAINST THE U.S.
BEING FRIENDS WITH THE ENEMY OF
THEIR ENEMY, BUT DOES THIS KIND
OF INSTABILITY MAKE IT MORE
DIFFICULT FOR THE U.S. TO
ACCOMPLISH OTHER GOALS LIKE
GETTING THIS NUCLEAR DEAL?
>> WELL, I THINK THE U.S. HAS
BEEN CAREFUL NOT TO GO TOO FAR
IN ATTACKING IRAN'S ALLIES, IN
PARTICULAR IN ATTACKING
HESBOLLAH FORCES IN AREA WHICH
HAVE BEEN PROPPING UP THE REGIME
OF BASHAR al-ASSAD.
BUT THE U.S. HAS TO BE CAREFUL.
IF OUR STRATEGY DEPENDS ON
SUNNIS DOING THE FIGHTING TO
CLEAR MOSUL AND RAMADI AND THAT
SEEMS TO BE THE STRATEGIES YOU
HAVE TO BE CAREFUL IT'S NOT
ASSUMED U.S. IS ACTING WITH IRAN
AND FRONTING FOR IRAN.
THAT'S A RECIPE FOR MORE SOONIAS
MOVING TOWARD I.S.I.S. AND AWAY
FROM THE COALITION.
>> Ifill: FEISAL ISTRABADI,
SOUNDS LIKE BETWEEN A ROCK AND A
HARD PLACE AGAIN.
>> I'M AFRAID.
SO MR. IGNATIUS IS RIGHT IN THAT
LASLAST POINT.
IT HAS TO BE A DELICATE
BALANCING ACT.
THE FACT IS THERE IS AT LEAST A
DE FACTO COOPERATION BETWEEN
UNITED STATES AND IRAN AT LEAST
IN IRAQ AND I THINK IF NOTHING
ELSE IT'S A REALIZATION THEY ARE
AND WILL BE A FACTOR AND ON THIS
ONE, AT LEAST, THEY'RE ON THE
SAME SIDE.
THE MILITIAS ARE A PROBLEM
BECAUSE THE MILITIAS MAY WELL BE
DRIVING PEOPLE TO THE WRONG SIDE
IN PLACES LIKE AMBAR.
I'M NOT SURE ABADI IS USING THE
MILITIAS AS HAVING THEM FORCED
ON HIM AND THAT THE A
COMPLICATED FACTOR.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: OFFICIALS FROM THE
U.S. AND CUBA RESUMED TALKS
TODAY IN WASHINGTON.
THEY'RE TRYING TO IRON OUT THE
DETAILS OF RE-ESTABLISHING
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS, WHICH WERE
BROKEN OFF MORE THAN 50 YEARS
AGO.
AT ISSUE TODAY-- WHAT IT WILL
TAKE TO RE-OPEN EMBASSIES IN
EACH OTHER'S CAPITALS.
IN DECEMBER PRESIDENTS OBAMA AND
CASTRO ANNOUNCED THEY'D
REESTABLISH TIES.
AND MEETING IN PANAMA, THEY RE-
AFFIRMED THAT COMMITMENT.
OUR OWN JEFFREY BROWN IS IN CUBA
ALL THIS WEEK, REPORTING ON WHAT
THE OPENING UP OF CUBA MEANS FOR
THAT COUNTRY.
AND CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
HAS BEEN FOLLOWING THE PROGRESS
OF THE TALKS HERE.
WE WELCOME BOTH OF YOU.
MARGARET, YOU HAVE BEEN
FOLLOWING THE TALKS.
WHAT'S THE LATEST?
>> THE LATEST IS THEY'VE WRAPPED
UP FOR THE DAY AND THERE IS
STILL NO DEAL.
THIS IS THE FOURTH TIME THEY'VE
MET OVER THE FAIRLY CONFINED
ISSUE OF OPENING UP EMBASSIES IN
EACH OTHER'S CAPITALS AND IT'S
PROVED TOUGHER THAN THEY
THOUGHT.
IT'S ENCOURAGING TODAY THE TWO
NEGOTIATORS ARE HAVING
BACK-TO-BACK NEWS CONFERENCES
HERE IN WASHINGTON TOMORROW.
SOME CONCERN THAT THEY MAY BE
DRAGGING THEIR FEET.
THE U.S. HAS NOT GOTTEN
SATISFACTION ON WHAT IT WANTS TO
OPEN AN EMBASSY WHICH IS U.S.
DIPLOMATS CAN TRAVEL AROUND THE
THE COUNTRY TO CUBA, TWO THAT
THEY CAN RECEIVE EQUIPMENT,
DOCUMENTS AND SECURE CONTAINERS
AND THREE PRESIDENT CASTRO THREW
IN A NEW ISSUE LAST WEEK WHICH
HE WAS CRITICAL OF THE PRO
DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS U.S. RUNS OUT
OF THE INTERSECTION WHICH TRAINS
INDEPENDENT JOURNALISTS, FOR
EXAMPLE.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT'S TYING
THE ISSUES TOGETHER, THERE IS
PAR NOIA ON THE PART OF THE
CUBAN GOVERNMENT, THAT THE U.S.
WILL USE THE ACCESS TO STIR UP
DISSENT IN CUBA, AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID IT'S NOT GOING TO TRY
TO CHANGE THE POLITICAL SYSTEM
IN CUBA, GIVEN THE HISTORY THERE
IS UNDERSTANDABLE CONCERN ON THE
CUBAN'S PART.
>> Woodruff: SO, JEFF, YOU
HAVE BEEN IN HAVANA FOR THE LAST
FEW DAYS.
ARE PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT IT?
ARE THEY AWARE OF THESE
NEGOTIATIONS GOING ON AND WHAT
ARE THEY SAYING ABOUT IT?
>> Brown: OH, VERY MUCH SO,
JUDY.
EVERYONE'S PAYING ATTENTION,
EVEN TODAY JUST TALKING TO
PEOPLE ONLY STREET, THEY WERE
AWARE OF WATCHING THE NEWS AND
FOLLOWING THE TALKS MARGARET'S
TALKING ABOUT IN WASHINGTON AND
EVERYBODY TALKS ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED SINCE DECEMBER, ANY
NUMBER OF PEOPLE SAID THEY NEVER
EXPECTED THIS KIND OF THING TO
HAPPEN IN THEIR LIFE TIMES.
EVERYBODY TALKS ABOUT IT WITH
REAL HOPE, ACTUALLY.
CAUTION BUT HOPE.
THE HOPE IS REALLY AROUND TWO
IMPORTANT THINGS.
THE ECONOMY.
THE ECONOMY IS REALLY BAD HERE.
PEOPLE ARE SCROUNGING FOR A
LIVING.
THEY'RE HOPING THAT THE OPENING
CAN MAKE A REAL DIFFERENCE.
WE'VE HEARD THAT FROM A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE.
THE OTHER THING IS A SENSE OF
ISOLATION.
REMEMBER, THIS IS HOW PEOPLE
HAVE LIVED WITH THE EMBARGO AND
THIS ISOLATION FROM THE U.S. AND
MUCH OF THE WORLD FOR SO LONG
THAT WE HEAR ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF OPENING THAT UP.
HERE WITH CLIPS OF PEOPLE WE
TALKED TO IN THE LAST DAY OR
TWO.
ONE WOMAN RUNS A SMALL CRAFT
SHOP WHICH IS ANOTHER SIGN OF
WHAT'S OPENING UP IN CUBA,
OPENING TO THE PRIVATE MARGARET.
THE SECOND IS A YOUNG MAN WHO'S
AN ATHLETE WHO'S INTERESTED IN
TRAVEL AND THINKS THERE MAY BE
HOPE FOR THAT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT U.S. AND
CUBA RELATIONS NOW.
>> I THINK IT'S AMAZING THIS
OPPORTUNITY THAT WE HAVE HERE TO
MEET PEOPLE FOR 56 YEARS WE HAVE
BEEN IN TO HAVE -- WE HAVEN'T
BEEN IN TO HAVE WITH EACH OTHER.
SO IT'S BEAUTIFUL TO KNOW EACH
OTHER AND START RELATIONSHIPS.
>> FOR MANY YEARS WE STOPPED.
IT IS GOOD TO IMPROVE RELATIONS
SOVERY ETHING FLOWS BETTER.
THE SOCIETY IMPROVES, THE
BLOCKADE, ALL THE THINGS THAT
HAVE BEEN AFFECTING US MANY
YEARS.
>> Brown: YOU HEAR THE OBJECT
MITCH BUT ALSO THERE IS CAUTION
ABOUT WHAT EXACTLY IS GOING TO
HAPPEN, HOW FAST IT WILL HAPPEN
AND HOW FAR IT WILL GO.
ONE THING THAT TIES A LOT OF
THIS TOGETHER IS THE INTERNET.
EVERYBODY TALKS ABOUT HOW
DISCONNECTED THIS PLACE IS,
WHETHER YOU'RE JUST TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE AROUND THE WORLD OR
WHETHER YOU'RE TRYING TO HAVE A
BUSINESS AND WE FEEL IT HERE.
YOU'RE VERY DISCONNECTED,
OPENING OF THE INTERNET, YOU
WOULD BE A REAL OPENING FOR THIS
ISLAND.
>> SO, MARGARET, LISTENING TO
WHAT THESE PEOPLE ARE SAYING,
ARE THESE EXPECTATIONS THAT CAN
BE FULFILLED BY THESE TALKS,
THESE NEGOTIATIONS?
>> DOWN THE LINE YESTERDAY, BUT
IT'S INTERESTING THAT THEY
FOCUSED ON A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT EITHER CONGRESS OR THE
PRESIDENT HAS EASED RESTRICTIONS
ON.
ONE IS
INTERNET/TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
CONGRESS DECIDE ADD NUMBER OF
YEARS AGO IT WAS ALL A PART OF
LET'S EXPOSE THE CUBAN PEOPLE TO
MORE INFORMATION.
SO THE PRESIDENT THEN ANNOUNCED
THAT RESTRICTIONS -- ANY
RESTRICTIONS ON AMERICAN
COMPANIES GOING DOWN -- YOU
KNOW, VERIZON, AT&T, WHOEVER --
TO HELP SET UP A REAL
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE INTERNET
WOULD BE RELAXED AND THESE
AMERICAN COMPANIES COULD COIT.
BUT AS JEFF INDICATED, ONLY 5%
OF THIS ISLAND EVEN HAS INTERNET
PENETRATION.
ONLY 5% OF ITS CITIZENS.
SO AMERICAN COMPANIES WHO -- AND
THEY DESPERATELY NEED FOREIGN
INVESTMENT TO HELP THE ECONOMY.
AMERICAN COMPANIES SAID WE CAN'T
RUN A BUSINESS OUT OF HERE
WITHOUT HIGH-SPEED INTERNET
ACCESS AND THE CUBANS KNOW THAT.
AT THE SAME TIME, IT IS A MEANS
OF CONTROL, BOTH OF POLITICAL
THOUGHT AND ALSO FRANKLY OF
BUSINESS, OF JUST KNOWING WHAT
EVERYBODY IS DOING.
AND THE SECOND THING JEFF SEEMED
TO MENTION IS TOURISM AND, THERE
AGAIN, LARGE-SCALE TOURISM, THE
BIG HOTELS ARE ALL OWNED,
APPARENTLY, BY THE SON-IN-LAW OF
PRESIDENT RAUL CASTRO, AND THE
IDEA THAT BIG AMERICAN FIRMS CAN
GO IN THERE AND ESTABLISH
BIG-SCALE TOURIST FACILITIES IS
STILL A LONG WAY OFF.
SO, YES, AIRBNB HAS 2,000
SIGNUPS FROM PEOPLE WITH ROOMS
IN THEIR PRIVATE HOMES, BUT
THERE'S A WAY TO GO.
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE TELLING
ME FROM WHATEVER HAPPENS IN THE
TALKS, THINGS ARE ALREADY
CHANGING IN CUBA, JEFF.
>> Brown: WELL, YOU CAN SEE IT
ON THE STREETS.
YOU SEE FEWER OF THE
REVOLUTIONARY SLOGANS THAN YOU
USED TO SEE, I'M TOLD.
I HAENEDPP TO BE HERE IN A
FESTIVE TIME.
THERE'S A LOT OF TOURITSS
INCLUDING A LOT OF AMERICAN
TOURISTS.
WE HAVE BEEN TOLD A LOT OF
PEOPLE WITH A LOT OF INTERESTS
ARE COMING RIGHT AFTER DECEMBER.
THE MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA WAS
HERE, A BIG CULTURE EXCHANGE.
THE HAVANA BIENIAL IS ON A BIG
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL.
SO A LOT OF PEOPLE AND ENERGY.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE THINGS
MARGARET WAS TALKING ABOUT, THE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROBLEM, SO
OBVIOUS HERE.
THE INTERNET WE TALKED ABOUT,
THE HOTEL SPACE, THERE'S JUST
NOT THAT MUCH IF THEY'RE GOING
TO START HAVING PEOPLE.
BANKING SYSTEM, CREDIT CARDS.
WE CAN'T USE OUR CREDIT
CARDS'RE.
GETTING AROUND.
THOSE OLD CARS, YEAH, THEY'RE ON
THE STREET, LOOK GREAT BUT IT'S
A SIGN OF HOW POOR PEOPLE ARE
HERE BUT THERE IS NOT THAT MANY
CARS AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE.
ALL KINDS OF, AS I SAID, HOPE
FOR WHAT'S POSSIBLE HERE BUT
IT'S SO OBVIOUS TO SEE JUST
WALKING AROUND IN A VERY
BEAUTIFUL CITY, YOU CAN SEE
BEHIND ME, BUT ONE THAT IS
CRUMBLING IN MANY WAYS AS WELL.
SO MANY QUESTIONS AS TO WHAT'S
TO COME, EVEN IF IT OPENED TO
SOME DEVELOPMENT, WHO WOULD TAKE
OVER THOSE THINGS, WHAT'S THE
FUTURE OF THIS CITY AND COUNTRY,
BIG QUESTIONS.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY BROWN
REPORTING FROM HAVANA.
MARGARET HERE IN WASHINGTON.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: THE FIGHT OVER THE
PRESIDENT'S PUSH FOR SPEEDY
ACTION ON AN INTERNATIONAL TRADE
BILL MOVED A CRITICAL STEP
FOWARD TODAY, BUT THE SENATE
SPENT MUCH OF ITS DAY TODAY
STILL LOCKED IN DISAGREEMENT
OVER THE OUTCOME.
WE'RE FAST TRACKING THIS
WHOLE IDEA OF A FAST TRACK
PROCESS.
WHY IS THAT GOOD FOR OUR
COUNTRY?
WORKERS.
>> Reporter: WHY IS THAT GOOD
FOR OUR SMALL MANUFACTURERS AND
THE SUPPLY CHAINS OF ALL THESE
BIG INDUSTRIES?
WHY IS THAT GOOD FOR OUR
COMMUNITIES?
WE'VE WAITED EIGHT YEARS, AND
THIS HAS TO BE DONE TODAY,
MR. PRESIDENT?
EIGHT YEARS WE'VE WAITED FOR
THIS AND WE HAVE ONE FULL DAY OF
DEBATE AND THE MAJORITY LEADERS
SHUT DOWN THE DEBATE.
I'M ALARMED HERE.
THE T.P.P. IS THE ONLY WAY
CONGRESS CAN ASSERT PRIORITIES
IN THE ONGOING TRADE
NEGOTIATIONS.
IT'S THE ONLY WAY WE CAN SURE
OUR TRADE NEGOTIATORS CAN REACH
GOOD DEALS WITH OUR TRADING
PARTNERS, AND IT'S THE ONLY WAY
WE CAN ENSURE THAT OUR PENDING
TRADE AGREEMENTS EVEN HAVE A
SHOT AT REACHING THE FINISH
LINE.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT SCORED A
NARROW VICTORY AS THE SENATE
VOTED TO MOVE THE LEGISLATION
AHEAD, BY ONLY TWO VOTES.
HE CALLED IT A "BIG STEP
FORWARD," BUT THERE WERE STRINGS
ATTACHED.
JOINING US TO TALK ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED BEHIND THE SCENES, AND
WHAT'S UP NEXT AS CONGRESS
PREPARES TO LEAVE FOR A BREAK,
IS POLITICAL EDITOR LISA
DESJARDINS ON CAPITOL HILL.
SO, LISA, TELL US THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT VOTE TODAY.
>> IT'S HUGELY ZIG SUGGESTED.
IT CASTS UNIONS AGAINST U.S.
CORPORATIONS.
BUT IT'S ABOUT THE FUTURE OF
WORLD COMMERCE AND THE U.S. ROLE
IN IT.
HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK FREE TRADE
HELPS THIS COUNTRY?
HOW MUCH DOES IT HURT IT?
THAT ALL COLLIDED IN A VERY
DRAMATIC SCENE ON THE SENATE
FLOOR TODAY.
THIS BILL HAD 60 VOTES TODAY.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE VIDEO, YOU
PAY ATTENTION TO THE GROUP OF
PEOPLE NEAR THE DESK, YOU CAN
SEE THE BLUE JACKET, MARIA
CAN'TWELL, A DEMOCRAT WHO
SUPPORTS FREE TRADE IN GENERAL
LOOKS FOR THE MOMENT SHE VOTES
YES.
YOU SEE MITCH McCONNELL
CONVINCE HER TO VOTE YES AND IN
PART, THE ISSUE OF TEX
PORT-IMPORT BANK, THE BANK THAT
SUPPLIES LOANS TO MANY AMERICAN
COMPANIES IN MS. CANTWELL'S
DISTRICT AND THAT'S SOMETHING
SHE INSISTED BE PART OF IT IS A
VOTE TO RENEW THE BANK WHICH
WOULD OTHERWISE EXPIRE IN JUNE.
SO A NUMBER OF TRADE ISSUES
COLLIDE AT ONE TIME TODAY.
>> Ifill: REPORTS THE
PRESIDENT EVEN CALLED PEOPLE
LIKE THE SENATOR TO DO A LITTLE
ARM TWISTING THERE.
>> CALLS MADE LATE LAST NIGHT
AND INTO THE DAY TODAY FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE.
THERE WAS DEFINITELY REAL ARM
TWISTING.
IN THE END THE FAST TRACK TRADE
AUTHORITY GOT 60 VOTES.
THAT REALLY CHEERS THE WAY FOR
THE PRESIDENT TO GET FAST TRACK
AUTHORITY APPROVAL IN THE SENATE
WHICH ULTIMATELY COULD LEAD TO
THE LARGE TRANS-PACIFIC
PARTNERSHIP DEAL MANY PEOPLE ARE
WATCHING CLOSELY.
THIS IS A HUGE HURD THE
PRESIDENT GOT OVER IN HIS TRADE
AGENDA TODAY BUT FACES ANOTHER
BIG ONE IN THE HOUSE WHERE THE
FAST TRACK AUTHORITY ALSO FACES
VERY ROCKY CLIFFS.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING ELSE THE SENATE IS
TAKING UP AND THE QUESTION ABOUT
PRIVACY SECURITY SURVEILLANCE,
THE N.S.A. SURVEILLANCE WHICH WE
SAW RAND PAUL TAKE OVER THE
FLOOR TEN HOURS YESTERDAY.
WAS THERE ANY MOVEMENT ON THAT
TODAY?
>> THERE WASN'T, GWEN, BUT
SOMETHING WE NEED TO WATCH
CAREFULLY IN THE NEXT 24 HOURS,
MAYBE OVER THE NEXT TWO OR THREE
HOURS BECAUSE THE TRUTH, IS THE
WAY IT STANDS NOW, THAT SOME KEY
PROVISIONS OF THE PATRIOT ACT
INCLUDING THAT PROVISION
ALLOWING BOTH COLLECTION OF
PHONE DATA, THOSE ARE SET TO
EXPIRE AT THE END OF THE MONTH,
WITH THE SENATE, AS YOU SAID,
GETTING READY TO LEAVE TOWN,
THEY NEED TO DEAL WITH IT IF THE
PROVISIONS WILL STAY IN TACT IF
THE PATRIOT ACT WILL LIVE.
THE HOUSE PASSED A VERSION THAT
EXCLUDES THAT PHONE METADATA
POWER.
THERE'S GREAT DEBATE IN THE
SENATE, WHETHER INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES NEED TO HAVE THAT KIND
OF BROAD POWER OR NOT, AND
SEEMS, GWEN, AT THIS MOMENT,
THERE AREN'T VOTES FOR ANY KIND
OF DEAL, WHETHER TO DROP THAT
COLLECTION ABILITY OR PASS A
TEMPORARY TWO-MONTH EXTENSION,
'NEATH BURN HAS ENOUGH SUPPORT
TO MAKE IT IN THE SENATE AT THIS
MOMENT SO WE KNOW THE SENATE
INTELLIGENCE CHAIRMAN, THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS IS
TRYING TO WORK OUT A COMPROMISE.
THIS COULD EASILY GO INTO THE
WEEKEND.
>> Ifill: WE'RE WAITING ON
ACTION ON TRANSPORTATION AND
OTHER ISSUES AS WELL.
LISA DESJARDINS ON CAPITOL HILL
TONIGHT, THANK YOU.
>> YOU GOT IT.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO OUR
CONTINUING COVERAGE OF THE
DROUGHT IN CALIFORNIA.
FARMERS ARE PREPARING FOR STATE-
ORDERED CUTS IN WATER USE TO
TAKE EFFECT THIS WEEK.
THEY ARE EXPECTED TO AFFECT
AGRICULTURE AND PEOPLE IN THE
WATERSHED OF THE SAN JOAQUIN
RIVER, WHICH RUNS FROM THE
SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS TO SAN
FRANCISCO BAY.
IT'S A PRIMARY SOURCE FOR FARMS
AND COMMUNITIES.
THERE ARE ALREADY BATTLES OVER
WHO'S USING TOO MUCH WATER.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN LOOKS AT WHAT YOU MIGHT
CALL AN "OMEGA-3 FOOD FIGHT"
AMONG PRODUCERS OF WELL-KNOWN
HEALTHY, SO-CALLED SUPER FOODS.
PART OF HIS ONGOING REPORTING
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: CALIFORNIA SALMON
ARE UNDER SIEGE THESE DAYS, AND
NOT JUST FROM BEARS HUNGRY FOR
HEART-HEALTHY FATTY ACIDS.
>> LAST YEAR, ALL OUR WILD
SPAWNING SALMON HAVE DIED.
>> Reporter: COMMERCIAL
FISHERMAN MIKE HUDSON HAS SEEN
THIS BEFORE, MOST RECENTLY IN
2008, WHEN CALIFORNIA'S
MULTIBILLION DOLLAR SALMON
INDUSTRY SUDDENLY AND TOTALLY
COLLAPSED.
>> JUST A SHORT TIME AGO FISHING
REGULATORS IN SEATTLE VOTED TO
COMPLETELY SHUT DOWN
CALIFORNIA'S SALMON SEASON.
>> IF YOU WANTED TO SEE SOME
GROWN MEN CRY, YOU COULD HAVE
JUST COME TO CALIFORNIA, WE WERE
TOTALLY SHUT DOWN.
WE WERE NOT ALLOWED TO WORK.
>> Reporter: THEN, AS NOW,
CALIFORNIA WAS IN THE MIDST OF A
MULTI-YEAR DROUGHT, LEAVING
RIVERS TOO SHALLOW AND WARM FOR
ADULT SALMON TO SPAWN, BABY
SALMON TO SURVIVE.
BUT THERE'S A NEW REASON FOR THE
DISAPPEARING FISH, SAYS
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCATE ADAM
SCOW.
>> IN THE LAST FEW YEARS, WE'RE
SEEING RECORD-HIGH LEVELS OF
PRODUCTION FOR ALMONDS,
PISTACHIOS, WALNUTS, IN SOME OF
THE HOTTEST DRIEST PARTS OF
CALIFORNIA.
>> Reporter: HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF ACRES OF THIRSTY
NUT TREES, ONE GALLON OF WATER
PER ALMOND, FIVE GALLONS PER
WALNUT, REQUIRING THE DIVERSION
OF WELL OVER A TRILLION GALLONS
OF FRESH WATER TO THE SOUTHERN
CENTRAL VALLEY.
>> THE WESTLANDS WATER DISTRICT
IS THE SINGLE LARGEST IRRIGATION
DISTRICT IN THE UNITED STATES.
10% OF THE STATE'S WATER IS NOW
GOING TO ALMONDS ALONE.
AS WE'VE SEEN THE WEST SIDE
ALMOND BOOM GROW, WE'VE SEEN
FISH POPULATIONS DECLINE.
>> Reporter: THAT'S BECAUSE
WATER PUMPED FROM CALIFORNIA'S
DAMS IN THE NORTH TO FARMS IN
THE SOUTH IS WATER DIVERTED FROM
THE RIVER DELTA THAT FLOWS INTO
SAN FRANCISCO BAY, FERRYING BABY
SALMON TO THE OCEAN.
>> LAST YEAR, THE SACRAMENTO
RIVER STOPPED FLOWING TO THE
OCEAN BECAUSE OF, A, THE DROUGHT
AND B, THE WATER DIVERSIONS.
WHEN THESE PUMPS TURN ON, THE
WATER FLOW IN THE DELTA GOES IN
THE WRONG DIRECTION, THE FISH
GET MISLED TO THINKING THAT
THEY'RE GOING TOWARDS THE OCEAN
WHEN THEY'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO
THE SOUTH DELTA WHERE THE HOT
WATER IS AND THAT'S WHERE THEY
GET KILLED.
>> Reporter: BUT WAIT A MINUTE,
SAYS WALNUT FARMER BRENT BARTON.
WHAT ABOUT THE WATER RUSHING
THROUGH HIS OWN FARM RIGHT NOW?
>> THAT'S ABOUT FOUR TIMES THE
NATURAL FLOW, AND THE EXCESS IS
GOING OUT THE DELTA, GOING OUT
TO THE OCEAN.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S GOING OUT
TO THE OCEAN BECAUSE?
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THERE'S A FEW THOUSAND SALMON,
THAT THEY'RE RELEASING THIS
WATER FOR.
FOR THE LAST FOUR YEARS WE'VE
HAD THESE RIDICULOUS FISH
RELEASES GOING ON.
WE'VE DRAINED THE RESERVOIRS.
>> Reporter: BA'S
BEEN GROWING WALNUTS IN
CALIFORNIA FOR OVER A CENTURY,
EVER SINCE HIS GREAT GRANDFATHER
PERRY BARTON MIGRATED FROM
ILLINOIS TO THE TOWN OF ESCALON
IN THE NORTHERN CENTRAL VALLEY .
BROTHER DON BARTON HANDLES THE
BUSINESS END OF THE OPERATION,
AND BUSINESS HAS BEEN BOOMING.
>> OVER THE LAST 12 YEARS,
PRODUCTION IN CALIFORNIA HAS
DOUBLED RESPONDING TO TREMENDOUS
DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCT AROUND
THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: ESPECIALLY FROM
ASIA, WHERE THE VERY SHAPE OF
WALNUTS HAS APPEAL.
DO SOME CHINESE ACTUALLY THINK
THAT BECAUSE THE WALNUT LOOKS
LIKE A BRAIN, IT'S GOOD FOR THE
BRAIN?
>> YES THEY DO, BUT NOW, THE
GREAT THING IS THAT THESE
STUDIES THAT HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED
JUST IN THE LAST FEW YEARS, ARE
PROVING THAT TO BE TRUE.
EVERYTHING FROM HEART HEALTH,
ABILITY TO REDUCE BLOOD
PRESSURE, ANTIOXIDANTS THAT HAVE
AN IMPACT ON BREAST AND
COLORECTAL CANCER, BONE HEALTH,
BRAIN HEALTH AND SO DEMAND HAS
JUST SKYROCKETED.
>> Reporter: AS FOR THE
SUPPOSEDLY EXORBITANT WATER USE
PER NUT, FARMERS LIKE THE
BARTONS REITERATED WHAT WE'VE
REPORTED BEFORE: PER OUNCE OF
PROTEIN, IT'S A LOT LESS WATER
THAN, SAY, RAISING BEEF.
BUT AS DEMAND CLIMBED OVER THESE
LAST DOZEN YEARS, SO DID
DIVERSIONS FROM THE DELTA, UP
50%, FROM FOUR TO MORE THAN SIX
MILLION ACRE FEET A YEAR.
>> IF YOU IMAGINE WHAT A
FOOTBALL FIELD LOOKS LIKE, AND
THEN YOU BUILD A WATER COLUMN,
THAT'S SIX AND A HALF MILLION
FEETALLT ON THE TOP OF THE
FOOTBALL FIELD, AND YOU LAY THAT
ON THE SIDE, IT ENDS UP IN
DENVER COLORADO.
THAT'S HOW MUCH WATER WE'RE
DIVERTING FROM THE DELTA.
>> Reporter: ANNUALLY.
BUT AS CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
DRAINED BY DROUGHT, SOME FARMERS
HAVE SUFFERED CUTBACKS FROM THE
DAMS AND AQUEDUCTS THAT
DISTRIBUTE WATER.
AND JUST AS ENVIRONMENTALISTS
BLAME NUT FARMERS FOR BLEEDING
THE FISH DRY, THE FARMERS CRY
FOUL ON THE FISH...AND ON THE
FEDS.
>> FARMERS IN CALIFORNIA HAVE
SEEN SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN
WATER SINCE THE 2009
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION WHICH
FORCED THE ARMY CORPS OF
ENGINEERS TO RELEASE HUGE
AMOUNTS OF WATER INTO THE OCEAN
FOR FISH PURPOSES.
AND WHEN THAT OCCURRED, THE
WHOLE GAME CHANGED, PARTICULARLY
FOR THOSE GUYS IN THE SOUTHERN
PART OF THE VALLEY.
>> Reporter: AH YES, WATER TO
THE SOUTHERN PART OF
CALIFORNIA'S CENTRAL VALLEY,
LONG A SUBJECT OF STRIFE.
THE MOVIE "CHINATOWN" CENTERED
ON DIVERTING WATER FOR URBAN
USE, WITHOUT WHICH HOLLYWOOD
ITSELF MIGHT NEVER HAVE
FLOWERED.
> OR TO THE OCEAN.
BUT WE ALSO LIVE ON THE EDGE OF
A DESERT.
LOS ANGELES IS A DESERT
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: BUT IT'S NOT JUST
COMMUNITIES LIKE L.A. OR, AS
RECENTLY FEATURED IN THE NEW
YORK TIMES, SAY, RANCHO MIRAGE.
UR TFOIMES THE WATER USED BY
COMMUNITIES GOES TO MAKING THE
DESERT BLOOM.
THE FARMERS GROW ANNUAL CROPS
LIKE FRUITS AND VEGETABLES,
CROPS FARMERS CAN CHOOSE NOT TO
PLANT DURING DROUGHTS.
BUT INCREASINGLY, THEY'VE GROWN
PERENNIALS-- TREES THAT, WITHOUT
WATER, WILL SIMPLY DIE: CITRUS
TREES, NUT TREES.
AND THUS THE BACKLASH UP AND
DOWN THE VALLEY, AND THE PROTEST
SIGNS LINING THE INTERSTATE.
>> IF WE DON'T HAVE WATER, WE
DON'T HAVE A BUSINESS, WE DON'T
HAVE A LIVELIHOOD, A WAY TO
CONTINUE TO PROVIDE FOR OUR
FAMILIES.
>> Reporter: TO WHICH FISHERMAN
HUDSON HAS A NEARLY IDENTICAL
RESPONSE.
>> OUR SALMON FISHERY SUPPORTS
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF GOOD FAMILY
WAGE PAYING JOBS.
THAT'S NOT ONLY T
LIKE ME, BUT IT'S THE
WHOLESALERS ON THE END OF THE
DOCK THAT HAVE PEOPLE WORKING
FOR THEM, THE PEOPLE THAT WORK
AT THE ICE DOCKS, THE FUEL
DOCKS, YOU KNOW, THERE IS ALWAYS
THE FIGHT BETWEEN FARMERS AND
FISHERMEN AND SO FORTH.
BUT I TELL YOU WHAT, WE FISH
SUSTAINABLE THESE DAYS.
>> Reporter: IS THIS BASICALLY A
FIGHT BETWEEN FISH FARMERS AND
NUT FARMERS?
>> I WOULD ARGUE THAT THIS IS A
FIGHT FOR THE LIVELIHOOD OF
FARMING FAMILIES WHO HAVE BEEN
DOING THIS FOR GENERATIONS.
>> IT WOULD BE MORE CONVENIENT
FOR THEM IF THE FISH WERE
EXTINCT WHICH WILL HAPPEN IF
THINGS CONTINUE AS THEY ARE.
>> Reporter: AND OF COURSE MORE
CONVENIENT FOR THE FISH AND
FISHERMEN IF THE CENTRAL VALLEY
WOULD RETURN TO GROWING NON-TREE
CROPS.
BUT FOR NOW, THE FISH-FARM FOOD
FIGHT CONTINUES, AT LEAST UNTIL
THE RAINS RETURN.
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, UP AND DOWN THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE CASE OF
FORMER NFL RUNNING BACK RAY
RICE, THE FORMER BALTIMORE
RAVENS PLAYER WAS CHARGED WITH
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT AFTER HE
KNOCKED HIS THEN-FIANCEE
UNCONSCIOUS.
THE LEAGUE SUSPENDED HIM
INDEFINITELY, A DECISION AN
ARBIRTATOR LATER LIFTED.
TODAY, ALL CHARGES AGAINST HIM
WERE DROPPED.
HARI SREENIVASAN PICKS UP THE
STORY FROM THERE IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS.
>> Sreenivasan: A NEW JERSEY
JUDGE DISMISSED THE CHARGES
AFTER RICE COMPLETED A ONE-YEAR
PROGRAM KNOWN AS A PRE-TRIAL
INTERVENTION.
ANGER MANAGEMENT COUNSELING IS
SAID TO BE PART OF THAT PROGRAM,
BUT FEW OTHER DETAILS HAVE BEEN
RELEASED.
THE PROSECUTOR AGREED TO LET
RICE PARTICIPATE IN THE PROGRAM
LAST YEAR.
THERE'S BEEN DISCUSSION AGAIN
TODAY OVER WHETHER RICE WAS
OFFERED A ROUTINE OR UNUSUAL
DEAL, GIVEN THE ASSAULT.
WE BREAK THIS DOWN WITH DEBBIE
HINES, A FORMER PROSECUTOR
FAMILIAR WITH DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
CASES.
SHE NOW PRACTICES IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
AND, CHRISTINE BRENNAN, A
SPORTSWRITER AND COLUMNIST FOR
"USA TODAY" AND COMMENTATOR FOR
ABC NEWS.
DEBBIE, I WANT TO START WITHYOU.
HOW UNUSUAL IS IT TO HAVE THE
CHARGES DROPPED IN AN AGGRAVATED
ASSAULT CASE WHICH USUALLY
CARRIES A MAXIMUM OF UP TO FIVE
YEARS?
>> HI.
IT IS SO UNUSUAL, I DON'T KNOW
EVEN KNOW HOW TO DESCRIBE IT.
IN MOST CASES WHERE THERE'S
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT YOU GENERALLY
ARNOTE EVEN ALLOWED TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE PRE-TRIAL
INTERVENTION PROGRAM.
IT'S CALLED DIFFERENT THINGS IN
OTHER STATES, BUT USUALLY WHEN
IT'S A VIOLENT CRIME, WHETHER
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE OR JUST
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT NOT INVOLVING
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, YOU ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO EVEN PARTICIPATE IN
THE CASES.
SO WHAT IT MEANS IN NEW JERSEY,
I UNDERSTAND, IS THAT -- AND
ROUGHLY ABOUT LESS THAN 1% OF
ALL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT TYPE CASES
ENDS UP IN THIS PROGRAM.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT'S A
TYPICAL PATH SOMEONE WHO GET
AN AGGRAVATED VERSUS ASSAULT
CHARGE.
>> THE SAME THING AS RAY RICE.
HE WAS ORIGINALLY OFFERED A PLEA
BARGAIN ONCE HIS CASE WAS
INDICTED ON THE ORIGINAL
ASSAULT, HE WAS OFFERED A PLEA
BARGAIN.
HE CHOSE NOT TO ACCEPT.
HE CHOSE TO PLEAD NOT GUILTY AND
GO THROUGH THE PROGRAM.
THE AVERAGE PERSON WOULD HAVE
BEEN OFFERED THE PLEA BARGAIN
AND THEY WOULD HAVE HAD THE
OPTION OF EITHER ACCEPTING A
PLEA BARGAIN OFFERED AND I CAN
TELL YOU IT WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
FOR A PRE-TRIAL INTERVENTION
PROGRAM OR THEY WOULD HAVE ABLE
TO PROCEED TO TRIAL ON THE CASE.
>> HOW MUCH IS IT BECAUSE HE IS
A HIGH PROFILE N.F.L. PLAYER.
>> I'M SURE A LOOT.
WHAT DEBBIE IS SAYING IS
RIVETTING AND INCREDIBLY
FRUSTRATING.
I WONDER IF WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED IF THEY HAD THROWN THE
BOOK AT RAY RICE, THE N.F.L.
WOULD HAVE TAKEN ITS LEAD FROM
THE DECISION OF THE AUTHORITIES,
AND YOU WOULDN'T HAVE HAD THE
TWO-GAME SUSPENSION BY ROGER
GOODELL, I AM SURE.
AIM SURE THEY WOULD HAVE GIVEN
HIM A MUCH TOUGHER SUSPENSION
EVEN BACK THEN, OBVIOUSLY WOULD
TURN FROM TWO GAMES INTO IFN
DEFINITE SUSPENSION AND RAY RICE
WOULD NOT PLAY FOOTBALL AGAIN.
BUT YOU THINK ABOUT HOW THE
COURSE OF SPORTS HISTORY AND
CULTURAL HISTORY WOULD HAVE
CHANGED IF THE AUTHORITIES IN
ATLANTIC CITY WOULD HAVE DONE
THE RIGHT THING INSTEAD OF
LETTING RAY RICE GET OFF
BASICALLY WITH A SLAP ON THE
WRIST.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS A
DISCONNECT IN TERMS OF HOW WE'RE
ACTING TO THE N.F.L. VERSUS THE
PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I'VE NOTED THEY HAVE MADE A LOT
OF CHANGES AND ARE DOING MORE
THAN ANYONE IN SPORTS, MAYBE
EVEN IN BUSINESS, MAYBE
WORLDWIDE.
I KNOW THAT'S QUITE A STAIRNTLE
ON THE ISSUE OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE.
NO ONE IS DOING ENOUGH BUT THE
N.F.L. LEARNED ITS LESSON FROM
SEPTEMBER 8, WHEN WE SAW THE RAY
RICE ELEVATOR VIDEO.
YOU THINK THE PUMMELING ROGER
GOODELL AND THE N.F.L. HAVE
TAKEN, MUCH SELF-INDUCED BUT A
LOT NOT, AND YOU COMPARE IT TO
WHERE'S THE OUTRAGE ABOUT THE
AUTHORITIES IN ATLANTIC CITY, I
FIND IT STRIKING AS A JOURNALIST
THE WAY THE N.F.L. HAS BORNE THE
BRUNT OF THIS WHEN THE
AUTHORITIES COULD HAVE CHANGED
HISTORY AND IN A BIG WAY
HAD DONE SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DEBBIE
HINES, A PROSECUTOR MIGHT SAY I
TOOK INTO CONSIDERATION WHAT HIS
THEN FIANCE NOW WIFE ALSO SAYS
AND FEELS ABOUT THE SITUATION.
SHOULD THAT COUNT IN THE
SENTENCING OR DROPPING THE
CHARGES?
>> IN THIS CASE IT SHOULD COUNT
FOR A VERY MINIMUM AMOUNT
BECAUSE WHAT YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND IS THERE WAS A VIDEO.
SO THEY DIDN'T EVEN NEED THE
TESTIMONY OF RAY RICE'S WIFE SO
SHE WOULD HAVE HAD SPOUSAL
IMMUNITY.
BUT THEY HAD THE VIDEO SHOWING
HE KNOCKED HER UNCONSCIOUS.
SO, YES, THEY WOULD HAVE TAKEN
INTO ACCOUNT HER FEELS AS THEY
WOULD ANY PARTICULAR VICTIM'S
CASE, BUT IN THIS CASE THE
PROSECUTOR COULD HAVE PROCEEDED
WITHOUT HER TESTIMONY IF SHE
CHOSE TO I VEHICLE HER SPOUSAL
IMMUNITY BECAUSE OF THE VIDEO.
>> Sreenivasan: CHRISTINE
BRENNAN, THERE'S ALSO THE
QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT RAY
RICE WILL PLAY AGAIN.
THERE WERE ARTICLES ON A HANDFUL
OF TEAMS WHO COULD USE A RUNNING
BACK LIKE HIM.
OTHER ARTICLES SAYING PERHAPS
HE'S PAST HIS PRIME.
WILL WE SEE HIM BACK ON THE
FOOTBALL FIELD?
>> IT'S DOUBTFUL.
I THINK THERE'S A CHANCE IF A
TEAM HAS INJURY DURING TRAINING
CAMP.
I DON'T THINK WE'LL SEE MUCH
ACTION TILL TRAINING CAMP IS
OPEN IN THE SUMMER.
THERE'S A CHANCE BUT RAY RICE IS
RADIO ACTIVE AND BECAUSE OF THE
VIDEO WHICH, OF COURSE, THE
AUTHORITIES IN ATLANTIC CITY HAS
AS WELL, EVERYONE KNOWS HIM FROM
THAT VIDEO.
I THINK NOT ONLY BASICALLY
FOOTBALL-WISE, HE'S 28 WHICH IS
KIND OF OLD FOR A RUNNING BACK,
AND HE HAD HIS WORSE YEAR IN
2013 AND DIDN'T PLAY LAST YEAR.
SO IT'S DAMAGED GOODS IN MANY
WAYS ON THE FIELD AND THEN THE
PUBLIC RELATIONS NIGHT MAYOR
THAT WOULD HAVE OCCURRED IF YOU
SIGN HIM, THAT'S ANOTHER ISSUE
THE TEAMS WILL BE DEALING WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: CHRISTINE AND
DEBBIE HINES, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A LOOK AT SOME
OF THE WONDERS OF THE COUNTRY'S
FIRST WILDERNESS PRESERVE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT SANDRA
HUGHES REPORTS FROM THE WESTERN
SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAIN RANGE.
>> Reporter: IN ITS 125th YEAR
AS A NATIONAL PARK, YOSEMITE
REMAINS AS BEAUTIFUL AS IT IS
POPULAR.
ON MOST WEEKENDS, JUST GETTING
INSIDE THE PARK TAKES PATIENCE.
BUT THE 1,100 SQUARE MILE
NATURAL WONDER IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA IS WORTH THE WAIT FOR
THE FOUR MILLION VISITORS WHO
TRAVEL HERE EVERY YEAR FROM ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
>> I THINK IT'S THE MOST
BETIFUAUL PLACE IN THE WORLD
THIS TIME OF YEAR, IN PARTICULAR
THE SPRING, THE POSTCARD
YOSEMITE.
>> Reporter: GARY HART
UNDERSTANDS YOSEMITE'S DRAW.
NATUA RE PHOTOGRAPHER WHO HAS
SHOT EVERY CORNER OF THIS PARK,
HART LEADS PHOTOGRAPHY
EXPEDITIONS FOR STUDENTS OUT TO
CAPTURE YOSEMITE'S FAMOUS AND
LESSER KNOWN WONDERS.
OVER A FOUR-DAY JOURNEY THROUGH
THE PARK, HART REVEALS HIS
SECRET SPOTS FOR AMAZING SHOTS
TO HIS PUPILS.
(SHUTTER CLICKS)
CAPTURING ICONIC LANDSCAPES,
BEAUTIFUL WATERFALLS...
...ANLINID NG UP YOSEMITE VALLEY
IN PERFECTLY FRAME THE RISG
MOON.
AS A PHOTOGRAPHER WHAT'S IT LIKE
TO CAPTURE THE ULTIMATE PICTURE
IN YOSEMITE?
>> OH IT'S EUPHORIA, IT'S GREAT.
FOR ME, IT'S TRYING TO COME WITH
SOMETHING THAT I'VE NEVER SEEN,
WHICH ISN'T REALLY EASY IT'S ON
THE MOST PHOTOGRAPHED LOCATIONS
IN THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: ON THIS EXPEDITION
HART AND HIS STUDENTS ARE
CHASING A PHOTO OF A FLEETING
NATURAL PHENOMENON, WHICH CAN
OCCUR ON A CLEAR NIGHT ONLY A
COUPLE TIMES EACH YEAR, WHEN THE
FULL MOON HITS A MISTY SPRAY
FROM YOSEMITE FALLS AT JUST THE
RIGHT ANGLE TO CREATE A MOONBOW-
- A NIGHTTIME RAINBOW THAT IS
VISIBLE ONLY THROUGH A CAMERA'S
LENS.
IT'S A SHOT THAT HART HAS GOTTEN
BEFORE.
BUT THIS YEAR, A MOONBOW
SIGHTING IS UNCERTAIN.
>> IT'S A PRETTY PHENOMENAL
EVENT, THINGS DEFINITELY HAVE TO
BE IN LINE FOR IT TO HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: RIGHT, RIGHT.
>> SO SOMETIMES IT DOESN'T
HAPPEN, SOMETIMES IT HAPPENS
MULTIPLE TIMES THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR, IT JUST REALLY DEPENDS ON
THE MOON AND THE WATER.
>> Reporter: THIS STICK MEASURES
THE HEIGHT OF THE MERCED RIVER
WHICH FLOWS THROUGH YOSEMITE.
AN AVERAGE SNOWFALL WOULD RAISE
THE RIVER LEVEL TO 12 FEET,
AFTER FOUR YEARS OF DROUGHT THIS
SPRING THE WATER LEVEL IS BELOW
THREE FEET.
THAT MEANS THAT YOSEMITE FALLS
WHICH NORMALLY FLOWS UNTIL
AUGUST, WILL BE DRY THIS YEAR BY
JUNE.
>> YOU NEED WATERFALLS AND MOST
OF THE TIME YOU NEED BIG
WATERFALLS.
SO WHAT THE DROUGHT MEANS FOR
THE MOONBOW IS THAT THERE MAY
NOT BE ENOUGH WATER IN YOSEMITE
FALLS TO CREATE THAT MIST, AND
TO CREATE MOONBOW.
>> Reporter: THOUGH HART HOPES
TO GIVE HIS STUDENTS A MOONBOW
EXPERIENCE TONIGHT, HE KNOWS
THAT THIS YEAR IT'S A LONG SHOT.
>> WE'RE KIND OF IN UNCHARTED
WATERS AS FAR AS THE SPRING FLOW
AS FAR AS I KNOW IT'S NEVER BEEN
THIS LOW THIS TIME OF YEAR.
>> Reporter: AT DUSK, A BRIGHT
FULL MOON RISES IN JUST THE
RIGHT POSITION UNDER A CLOUDLESS
CLEAR SKY.
HART AND HIS STUDENTS MAKE THE
NIGHT TIME HIKE TO THE BASE OF
YOSEMITE FALLS KNOWING IT STILL
MAY NOT BE ENOUGH.
IT'S NOT LOOKING GOOD RIGHT NOW?
>> IT REALLY ISN'T.
>> Reporter: AS THE MOON MOVES
IN AND THEN SLOWLY OUT OF
POSITION, THE MIST AT THE BASE
THEOF FALLS IS TOO LOW TO CATCY
HAVE SPOILED THE MOONBOW...
>> I DON'T WANT TO GIVE UP YET,
I WANT TO GET THESE GUYS SOME
COLOR.
>> Reporter: ...OR WILL SHE?
>> THAT IS A MOON BOW.
IT'S PRETTY COOL A RAINBOW
CAUSED BY MOONLIGHT.
>> Reporter: WITH A FRACTION OF
ITS WATER FLOW, YOSEMITE FALLS
CREATES JUST ENOUGH SPRAY TO DO
IT'S PART WITH THE MOON AND SKY
AND CREATE THE AMAZING EFFECT
BEFORE DISAPPEARING.
SOON YOSEMITE FALLS WILL FOLLOW
SUIT.
AND THIS MAGICAL MOMENT WILL BE
ALL DRIED UP FOR ANOTHER YEAR.
I'M SANDRA HUGHES FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR IN YOSEMITE NATIONAL
RK.PA
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO A STORY
ABOUT REVERSE MIGRATION, TO
CHINA.
IT'S ABOUT CHINESE AMERICANS IN
SEARCH OF SOLUTIONS.
WHERE DO THE CHILDREN GO WHEN
THEIR PARENTS CAN'T AFFORD DAY
CARE?
IN MANY CASES, BACK TO THEIR
ANCESTRAL HOMES, TO LIVE WITH
GRANDPARENTS.
OFTEN, THEY THEN DON'T SEE THEIR
PARENTS FOR YEARS.
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA STUDENT
LEO ZOU BRINGS US THE REPORT.
>> Reporter: THIS IS KINBER, A
PRIVATE KINRGARDETEN IN A SMALL
TOWN IN SOUTHERN CHINA'S JIANFU
PROVINCE.
WHAT IS DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS
PLACE IS MOST OF THESE CHILDREN
ARE AMERICANS BY BIRTH.
IN CHINA, THEY ARE KNOWN AS
"YANG LIU SHOU ER TONG," OR
"LEFT BEHIND FOREIGN CHILDREN."
WEIN IS THE PRINICPAL AT KINBER.
>> (translated): MANY
CHINESE
>> (translated
): MANY CHINESE
PEOPLE IN GUANTOU HAVEMIGR EATED
TO THE UNITED STATES.
MOST PARENTS WORK IN THE
RESTAURANT BUSINESS THERE WHICH
KEEPS THEM VERY BUSY.
THEY DON'T HAVE TIME FOR DAY
CARE SO THEY SEND THEIR KIDS
BACK TO LIVE WITH THEIR
GRANDPARENTS.
>> Reporter: THE CHILDREN ARE
ONLY A FEW MONTHS OLD WHEN THEY
ARRIVE, AND IT WILL BE YEARS
BEFORE THEY MEET THEIR PARENTS
AGAIN.
IN THIS SMALL TOWN OF GUANTOU,
SOME 60,000 PEOPLE, ALMOST THE
ENTIRE POPULATION, HAVE
EMIGRATED.
FOR MOST PEOPLE, IT WAS A ONE-
WAY TRIP.
AFTER YEARS OF TOILING IN
CHINATOWNS ACROSS AMERICA, THEY
SENT MONEY HOME TO CHINA TO HELP
BUILD HOUSES FOR THEIR PARENTS.
STRUGGLING TO SURVIVE IN THE
U.S., THEY ALSO BEGAN TO SEND
THEIR YOUNG CHILDREN BACK.
THIS BOY NAMED ZHAO WEIJIE WAS
SENT BACK WHEN HE WAS A YEAR
OLD.
HIS GRANDPARENTS HAVE RAISED
THREE OTHER CHILDREN FOR THEIR
SONS AND DAUGHTERS WORKING
OVERSEAS.
OVERSEAS. >> (translated
): WHAT CAN YOU
>> (translated):
WHAT CAN YOU DO?
DO?
THERE IS NO OTHER WAY TO MAKE A
LIVING.
YOU CAN'T MAKE MONEY IF YOU
DON'T SEND THEM BACK TO CHINA.
>> Reporter: WEIJIE'S MOTHER
SENDS HIM TOYS, CLOTHES AND
GIFTS FROM AMERICA.
BUT THE CONTACT HE'S HAD WITH
HER HAS BEEN THROUGH A COMPUTER
SCREEN.
CHILDREN LIKE WEIJIE ARE COMMON
IN GUANTOU.
AT KINBER KINDERGARTEN ALONE,
MORE THAN TWO-THIRDS OF ITS 250
STUDENTS WERE BORN OUTSIDE OF
CHINA.
THE NUMBER IS AS HIGH AS 20,000
ACROSS THE REGION.
IN CLASS, A TEACHER ASKS
STUDENTS TO DRAW THEIR WHOLE
FAMILY.
ONE BOY DRAWS HIS FATHER, THE
TEACHER ASKS "DO YOU MISS HIM?"
YES, HE SAYS, I CRIED.
THE TEACHER ASKS HIM WHAT HE
WOULD LIKE TO SAY TO HIM.
>> TO COME BACK.
>> Reporter: BY THE AGE OF FIVE
OR SIX, MOST CHILDREN ARE
BROUGHT BACK TO THE U.S. TO
ATTEND ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
IN LESS THAN A MONTH, THE SIX-
YEARS-OLD LIANG LEXIN WILL TAKE
THAT JOURNEY.
THAT JOURNEY. >> (
translated): I WILL GO
TO
>> (translated): I WILL
GO TO THE U.S. IN NINE DAYS.
THE U.S. IN NINE DAYS.
I MISS MY PARENTS.
IT'S BEEN A VERY, VERY LONG TIME
SINCE I'VE SEEN THEM.
>> Reporter: AFTER FIVE YEARS
APART, LIANG WILL BE RE-UNITED
WITH HER PARENTS.
WITH HER PARENTS. >> (
translated): MY HEART
>> (translated): MY
HEART REALLY GOES OUT TO THESE
KIDS.
REALLY GOES OUT TO THESE KIDS.
NO MATTER HOW MUCH THE
GRANDPARENTS LOVE THEIR GRAND
CHILDREN, YOU CAN NEVER REPLACE
A MOTHER'S LOVE.
BUT PARENTS NEED TO MAKE MONEY
IN ORDER TO LET THEM HAVE A
BETTER FUTURE.
>> Reporter: FOR THE NEWSHOUR,
I'M LEO ZOU IN FUJIAN PROVINCE,
CHINA.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR NEWSHOUR SHARES OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE,
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
TONIGHT, IT'S A NEW KIND OF
TIME-LAPSE, MINING PUBLIC PHOTOS
TO CAPTURE THOUSANDS OF TIME
LAPSES OF NOTEWORTHY PLACES.
RESEARCHERS FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF WASHINGTON AND GOOGLE SIFTED
THROUGH 86 MILLION PHOTOS POSTED
ON PUBLIC WEBSITES LIKE FLICKR
AND PICASA TO SHOW SITES
FROM THE GRADUAL MELTING OF A
GLACIER IN NORWAY,
TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
GOLDMAN SACHS BUILDING IN NEW
YORK CITY.
THE IMAGES ALSO SHOWCASE
SEASONAL CHANGES AT MOUNT ST.
HELENS, SHIFTING SANDBARS AT A
BEACH IN THAILAND, THE FAMOUS
LAS VEGAS STRIP AT NIGHT, AND
EVEN A SWISS GUARD AT THE
VATICAN WHO WAS SO STILL HE
BECAME PART OF THE TIME-LAPSE
ITSELF.
THE RESEARCHERS SAID WHERE IT
ONCE TOOK MONTHS OR YEARS TO
CREATE THESE VIDEOS, THEY CAN
NOW DO IT ALMOST INSTANTLY IN AN
EFFORT TO HELP DOCUMENT OUR
EVER-CHANGING WORLD.
YOU CAN WATCH MORE OF THESE TIME
LAPSE VIDEOS FOR YOURSELF AT OUR
WEBSITE.
TONIGHT ON CHARLIE ROSE, A LOOK
BACK AT LETTERMAN.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE LOOK AT ONE
CREATIVE SOLUTION FOR HOMELESS
TRANSGENDER YOUTH IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.